# ABOUT PROJECT DATA
The coffee order dataset provides insights into customer purchasing behavior across various coffee types, sizes, and roast types by this coffee shop company. It captures key variables such as customer preferences, seasonal trends and top customers. it contains three different sheets namely: Products, Orders and Customers.
What tool did I use for this analysis? I basically used SQL in deriving insights towards business goals and objectives.

# WHAT ARE THE KEY BUSINESS QUESTIONS FOR THIS ANALYSIS?
1. What coffee products generates the most revenue?
2. What are the best-selling coffee types, roast types or sizee?
3. Are there seasonal trends in order volume?
4. Who are the top customers by revenue?
5. What countries or cities contributed the most revenue?

# WHAT ARE MY GOALS OF TACKLING THIS ASSIGNMENT AS AN ANALYST WORKING FOR THIS COFFEE SHOP COMPANY?
1. To analyze sales and customer behavior in order to improve business performance
2. To help the business optimize it's product offerings and pricing strategies.
3. Support data-driven decision making across departments.

# WHAT WERE MY OBSERVATIONS GOING IN TO TACKLE THIS PROJECT?
1. First and fore most, I had to make use of the joins function as it is required, that the various data sheets demanded to be joined for the full data insight.
2. The data demanded certain data cleaning and standardization.
3. I also needed to track KPIS like total Sales, Average Sales and quantities ordered.
4. I also looked at the customer segmentation by geography, loyalty status and order patterns.

# STEPS I TOOK TOWARDS THIS PROJECT INCLUDES

1. Importing our excel data.
2. Data Cleaning & STANDARDIZATION
3. Data analysis
4. Key Insights.
5. Recommendations
6. Conclusion.

## DATA IMPORTING
Here, I simply imported this dataset in it's excel form into SQL Server Management Studios.

## DATA CLEANING AND STANDARDIZATION
I do this by first glancing through the datasets and to fully understand the it well enough before proceeding. I then took each one of the three datasheets and cleaned them separately. I looked at things like:

1. Which columns I won't be needing or isn't relevant for this data?
2. Are the columns that need to be splitted for some reasons?
3. Is it advisable to remove null values for certain columns or fill these null values with certain informations?
4. Do I change some values in some columns to make them even more readable and understandable for my client? etc.

# DATA ANALYSIS
After my data cleaning and standardization round, I then looked at performing some analytical queries to derive business insights. These included:
1. What the overall total revenue for this company during the period is?
2. The total revenue by country?
3. The total Revenue by City?
4. The Top 5 High-value customers?
5. Order volume trend by Year?
6. What was the order volume trend by day?
7. The most preferred coffee types by customers?
8. Which customers actually ordered more coffees than the overall average order volume?
9. The total revenue generated by the year 2021 only? as requested
10. The top coffee raost types preferred per country?
11. Total loyalty card holders in each country?
12. The customer with the most orders placed?

# KEY INSIGHTS
1. USA, UK and Germany lead in both total and average revenues respectively.
2. Arabica and Roberica proved to be the most sold coffee types.
3. Only a small group or number of people contribute the most towards our revenue
4. The data saw that November and December saw more orders that the remaining months.
5. I also observed that roast and coffee type preferences varied across countries.
6. Some cities saw significantly lower average revenues per order.

# RECOMMENDATIONS
1. Since USA, UK and Germany saw a higher revenue surge, management should increase their marketing efforts and loyalty programs in these countries.
2. Management should maintain a strong supply chains and launch seasonal variations for Arabica and Roberica seeing the are the top seeling coffee types
3. For the small group of people driving the most revenue for this company, its is advisable that management create something like, a VIP rewards program or event to reward them.
4. Seeing how November and December attract most customers and revenue, scheduling promotions and limited-time offers around these peak period will be very rewarding for the company.
5. Management should try understanding the and adapting to the regional taste for the available coffee varieties so as to tailor specific coffe types, roast types and sizes to these regions to make the most revenue.

 # CONCLUSION
 This analysis reveals strong opportunities for growth through regional customization, targeted promotions, and customer segmentation. By focusing on high performing markets, nurturing top customers, and aligning inventory with preferences, the company can significantly enhance revenue and customer loyalty. Also, strategic use of loyalty programs and seasonal campaigns will further drive sales and strengthen brand engagement.

 Thank you.









